turning now to the war in Gaza where a
team from the world's Health
Organization has visited the AL AXA the
oxa hospital excuse me and described
chaotic scenes who staff said that they
were delivering supplies to the hospital
and witnessed large numbers of wounded
people being brought in for Urgent
Treatment after an
explosion wh staff filmed from inside
the hospital which they said was in dire
need of medical supplies the hospital
hital described as gaza's most important
is also dealing with critical staff
shortages the organization is planning
to facilitate the deployment of
Emergency Medical Teams to help support
overworked doctors and
nurses the wh's coordinator said that
evacuation orders had and fierce
fighting had forced most medical staff
to leave he urged protection of the
hospital this hospital is currently
operating with about 30% of the staff
that had had just a few days ago um they
are seeing in some cases hundreds of
casualties every day in a small
emergency department uh yesterday they
said they had one doctor working
overnight in this emergency department
with and it's it's really a chaotic
scene the hospital director just spoke
to us and he said his one request is
that this Hospital be protected even
though many of his staff have left so
that's the message from the who the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin is
due in Israel for talks on the war in
Gaza as fears grow that the conflict
could widen across the region speaking
in Qatar blinkin said that it was
imperative to protect civilians in Gaza
Israel is battling Hamas which
classified as a terrorist organization
by the US Germany and many other
countries Anthony blinkin on a
diplomatic drive to prevent the spread
of the Israel Hamas
war after meetings in Qatar the the US
Secretary of State warned on Sunday the
war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza
could metastasize and threaten Security
in The Wider Middle East in Doha linkoln
laid out his goals and he had praise for
his
hosts in all of my meetings over the
last two days we've discussed ongoing
efforts to better protect civilians in
Gaza and to get more humanitarian
assistance to them and to get the
remaining hostages out and home with
their loved
ones cter was instrumental in the
negotiations that led to the
simultaneous release of more than 100
hostages including American citizens uh
and a pause in the fighting that during
that time enabled us to double the flow
of humanitarian Aid to civilians in Gaza
for these displaced Palestinians caught
in the crossfire of this conflict in
Gaza help can't come soon enough and the
US Secretary of State made his position
on their status clear Palestinians
civilians must be able to return home as
soon as conditions allow they cannot
they must not be pressed to leave
Gaza but at the funeral of two
Palestinian journalists killed in an
apparent Israeli air strike in the south
of the Gaza Strip the prospect of Peace
seems far
away binkin said the killings were an
unimaginable tragedy and that he was
deeply sorry for the family's loss the
US top diplomats Middle East tour
continues on Monday with visits that
include Israel and the occupied West
Bank and the German foreign minister is
also on a trip to the Middle East it's
her fourth visit to the region since the
October 7th attacks today she visited a
Palestinian Village in the West Bank
here's what she had to say after the
meeting with people there we know by
listening to different Palestinians what
it means that radical settlers are
forcing people away from their home but
it makes a differ if you really speak to
people who just lived here a few hundred
meters away and now had to move with
their seven children because they cannot
guarantee the security of their own
family anymore because radical settlers
are checking also their children this is
not only inhuman this is illegal illegal
under Israeli law this is illegal under
international law and I want to make
very clear as a German foreign minister
from Germany that we are standing for
the right of every Palestinian people to
live freely and secure in their own
house and this is why we are calling on
the Israel government to not look away
when radical settlers are threatening
Palestinian people but to take up their
obligation of protecting Palestinians
living here on their own territory
and we are here because we want to
underline that a two-state solution
meaning that people can live freely and
security and in dignity in Gaza and also
in the west yland is of high importance
in the West Bank is of high important
for the future of both Israelis and
Palestinians the German foreign minister
speaking a short while ago Tanya Kramer
is standing by with a view from
Jerusalem so you know with the German
foreign minister we just heard for
speaking there visiting Palestinians in
the West Bank remind us of the biggest
issues there at the moment she
specifically touched on settler violence
and
security yeah I think this was one of
the biggest uh issues here what we've
been hearing uh this morning but of
course she the German foreign minister
analina Bok was also holding talks with
Palestinian officials uh in ramala but
she made a point in visiting a village
uh in the occupied West Spang a
Palestinian Village that is close to
Israeli settlements there and we could
hear her you know talking in length
about the impact of uh uh settler
Violence by extremist Israeli settlers
uh on Palestinians uh living there she
said that it's Israel's Duty uh to
protect them and that also Palestinians
have a right to live in peace and
security uh in uh their area she also
again we heard it there criticized uh
settlement building or the expansion of
settlements which is seen as illegal
under international law by uh most of
the international uh Community now this
of course comes on the backdrop of uh
more incidents that have been recorded
since uh uh at least the beginning of
the war since October 7th the terror
attacks there uh in the occupied West
Bank by uh extremist settler Violence by
Israeli human rights organizations and
also by uned United Nations and uh that
has resulted in injuries uh property
damage and also displacement especially
among the Hing and Veteran communities
in the occupied West Bank Tanya how
about the situation in Gaza because um
after meeting with Israeli officials
yesterday the German foreign minister
also said that it was and I'm quoting
here um increasingly clear that the
Israeli Army must do more to protect
civilians in Gaza then she called for a
less intense
operation How likely is the Israeli
government likely to to listen to that
call from
Berlin well I think you have to see um
you know Germany I mean she also
reiterated of course that uh Germany is
standing side by side uh with Israel and
that Israel has the right to defend
itself uh uh as since the October 7th uh
attacks so uh that is of course what she
said as well but she also and I think
there we see a slight change also in
what Germany is saying that comes along
what you also hear from the United
States and we've been hearing that and
the US Secretary of State Antony blinkin
is also in in the region that more needs
to be done uh to protect Palestinian
civilians and to get more Aid uh into
Gaza now what impact does that have that
is still to be seen uh Germany has
increased its humanitarian assistance
but of course Al as United States they
have not called for a full ceasefire as
of yet Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem thank
you